---
layout: post
title: "Conceptualizing and Measuring the Popularity of Sinhala Songs"
author: "J.H.S.Abeytunge"
######################
start-year: 2023
start-month: March
start-Day: 10
######################
end-year:
end-month:
end-Day:
######################
image: assets/images/projects/Popularity-of-sinhala-songs.jpg
thumbnail: assets/images/projects/Popularity-of-sinhala-songs-thumb.jpg
---

###### Author [J.H.S.Abeytunge](/author/JHSAbeytunge.html)

###### Supervisor: [Dr. M.I.E.Wickramasinghe](/team/dr-manju/index.html)
###### Co-supervisor: [ Mr. M.A.P.P.Marasinghe](/team/pasindu-marasinghe/index.html)

#### Abstract 
The ability to predict the popularity of a song before its release to the market has been
an extensively researched area, known as Hit Song Science (HSS). Nowadays, HSS has
gained attention from researchers as its findings can lead to enormous economic benefits
for both artists and record labels. However, these findings heavily depend on the mea-
surement of popularity that researchers use in their study. Therefore, it is crucial to have
a solid and methodical way of measuring the popularity of songs.

Our extensive observations of the currently used measurements of popularity in HSS re-
search showed a lack of scientifically proven methods for assessing the popularity of songs.
This is especially true when it comes to country-specific studies, where it becomes even
harder to find a reliable measurement of popularity that can be utilized in HSS research
intended to find patterns of popular Sinhala songs. Thus, we conducted this study with
the aim of implementing a model that evaluates the popularity of Sinhala songs.

After a thorough qualitative data analysis that helped us understand and conceptualize
the popularity of songs, we found that popularity is a subjective social construct that
can be conceptualized as a three-personality-based framework. Based on this framework,
we implemented a ranking system that can produce reliable results using freely available
listener consumption data from YouTube and Spotify. Therefore, this approach can be
applied by any researcher in their study when it is challenging to find a reliable measure-
ment of the popularity of songs. The resulting charts generated by the proposed system
express the accuracy of the system compared to the existing potential measurements of
the popularity of songs.

Ultimately, as this model is implemented based on the findings of extensive qualitative
data collection and produces accurate rankings for songs based on their popularity, we
present our model as a good candidate for measuring the popularity of songs. Further-
more, this model can be incorporated as a measurement of the popularity of HSS research,
which could lead to a greater improvement in the music industry.